Users of OSS have fundamental control and flexibility advantages that promotes collaboration and innovation with the software they create and use. This systematic freedom inherently comes with it's pros and cons.

Open-source software is constantly being created and improved, this allows for it to be extremely reliable. For example, an OSS text editor you use may have had a bug that went unnoticed but with so many users and developers collaborating the time it was live was minimal when you compare a propriety software piece having a bug. With OSS the community can create and track issues that can contributed and fixed, relatively, immediately. Unlike a proprietary piece which the bug will need to be submitted and *hopefully designated to be fixed by the vendors team. Their priorities will determine the length of time the bug is live. 

With this reliability comes the percieved con of the support available. Commercial software is often lauded for the services and support offered for the proprietary software. For the non-saavy users this alone would discourage the possibility of OSS being preferrable to them.

OSS has longevity by default because anyone can access the source code and as such the sofware can continuously evolve from those who contribute to it. And those who contribute typically offer support or resources. While using proprietary software you run the risk of a company dissolving and losing support, user agreement changes which can effect your usage of the service, and much more. This leads to the uncertaintity of that softwares future.

But with OSS we do face the issue of Orphan Software. There is always the possibility that the developer(s) lose interest in a project or move on. If it is not picked up it will be discontinued just like proprietary software. 

There are numerous advantages and disadvantages of both OSS and proprietary software. But I believe the positives outweight the negatives with OSS. Using Open Source Software provides society the ability to progress on a more equitable and efficient footing.

While propriety software has generated complancey for out of the box software and solutions as well as the, debated, unmatched support I feel that has hindered our ability to open our views on the on the benefits and potential realities of using OSS. 

With OSS every user could have immediate support from a plethora of resources, from forums, to blogs, to youtube videos and irc & similar channels. The complacency generated from companies monopolizing software areas(e.g. Microsoft and its ingrained licensing withing commercial and educational institutes) has promoted comfort that users are uncertain to stray from and learn to adapt to the services and support offered from OSS. 

Having our progress and self-ability impaired in this way prevents us from creating and innovating softwares that can equitable for all users and it limits the abilities we can pass on to generations so we may grow and improve. 

While situationally I feel having a 'standard' software is beneficial to those with impairments out of their control, propriatary software doesnt allow for it to be further modified to better suit their disability and it discourages users from seeking support outside of the vendors bubble. 

If all could come together to have some base technical information on how to, at minimum, seek help from others or information for ourselves then OSS would be invaluable. Of course the argument of security will come in. But having readily available source code in sight of the numerous developers and community, those concerns can be voiced, spread, avoided and/or fixed. Verus trusting a company, with malicious intent or not, to remove, fix, or change those concerns.

Honestly at this point, I don't know that the essay is well formatted but this was a good diary entry for me.